:author: Alexander Kotsev
:Version: osgeolive12.0
:License: Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported  (CC BY-SA 3.0)


@LOGO_inspire@
@OSGEO_KIND_inspire@

@NAME_inspire@
================================================================================

The `INSPIRE Directive <https://inspire.ec.europa.eu>`__ aims to create a
European Union spatial data infrastructure (SDI) for the purposes of
environmental policies. This European SDI will enable the sharing of
environmental spatial information among public sector organisations, facilitate
public access to spatial information and assist in policy-making across
boundaries.  INSPIRE is based on the infrastructures for spatial information
established and operated by the 28 Member States of the European Union. The
Directive addresses 34 spatial data themes needed for environmental
applications.  It came into force on 15 May 2007 and will be implemented in
various stages, with full implementation required by 2021. INSPIRE is on a
technical level based on international standards, mainly those developed by the
:doc:`OGC <ogc_overview>` and ISO.


Public sector authorities whose data falls within the scope of the Directive shall:

	* Document them through metadata.
	* Establish network services (discovery, view, download).
	* Harmonise their spatial data in accordance with common specifications.

Currently, more than 7,000 institutions contribute their data to INSPIRE. A
significant share of them use OSGeo applications throughout the implementation
process. :doc:`OSGeoLive <../index>` provides an easy entry to the
implementation process through an increasing number of readily available
examples with sample data European data from multiple application domains. In
addition, a dedicated wiki page on `INSPIRE and OSGeo
<https://wiki.osgeo.org/wiki/INSPIRE>`__ is established that gives an overview
of the legal and technical aspects of INSPIRE together with selected use cases
and an overview of OSGeo tools that implementers may use.


Details
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Website:** https://inspire.ec.europa.eu/about-inspire/563


